README.md, before:

# dotfiles

:wrench: dotfiles for ubuntu

## Installation

:warning: Backup your current dotfiles, otherwise launching the installation script _will override them_!

```bash
git clone https://github.com/devmatteini/dotfiles.git && cd dotfiles && ./bootstrap.sh
```

The [`bootstrap.sh`](bootstrap.sh) script execute:

1. [bootstrap/file_system.sh](bootstrap/file_system.sh) to create common directories
2. [bootstrap/configs.sh](bootstrap/configs.sh) to create symlinks to home and config files
3. [bootstrap/dependencies.sh](bootstrap/dependencies.sh) to install basic dependencies

## Shell

Currently using [`zsh`](https://www.zsh.org/).
You can customize it by editing [`configs/zsh`](configs/zsh/) files.

Alternatively you can use [`configs/bash`](configs/bash/).

## Prompt

Currently using [`starship`](https://github.com/starship/starship/).
You can customize it by editing [`configs/starship.toml`](configs/starship.toml).

By default if starship is not installed basic fallback prompt is available for both `bash` and `zsh`.

## Terminal Emulator

Currently using [`WezTerm`](https://wezfurlong.org/wezterm/index.html).
You can customize it by editing [`configs/wezterm/wezterm.lua`](configs/wezterm/wezterm.lua).

Alternatively you can use `gnome-terminal` and load its configuration by running:

```bash
./packages/gnome-terminal configs/gnome-terminal.dconf
```

To export a new configuration follow [this article](https://gist.github.com/devmatteini/968981d95fd203905f7618ce67647e83) instructions.

## Packages

If you didn't run the `bootstrap.sh` script, run:

```bash
./bootstrap/file_system.sh
./bootstrap/dependencies.sh
```

To install packages you can find scripts in [`packages/`](packages/).

## GRUB Theme

https://github.com/shvchk/poly-dark

![grub-poly-dark](./assets/grub-poly-dark.png)

## Inspired by

- https://github.com/alrra/dotfiles
- https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles
- https://github.com/iacoware/dotfiles/
- https://github.com/CoreyMSchafer/dotfiles
- https://github.com/mrnugget/dotfiles
- https://github.com/LukeSmithxyz/voidrice
- https://github.com/Phantas0s/.dotfiles
- https://github.com/basecamp/omakub

Commit message:

docs: add Ubuntu autoinstall section

README.md, after:

# dotfiles

:wrench: dotfiles for ubuntu

## Installation

:warning: Backup your current dotfiles, otherwise launching the installation script _will override them_!

```bash
git clone https://github.com/devmatteini/dotfiles.git && cd dotfiles && ./bootstrap.sh
```

The [`bootstrap.sh`](bootstrap.sh) script execute:

1. [bootstrap/file_system.sh](bootstrap/file_system.sh) to create common directories
2. [bootstrap/configs.sh](bootstrap/configs.sh) to create symlinks to home and config files
3. [bootstrap/dependencies.sh](bootstrap/dependencies.sh) to install basic dependencies

### Ubuntu autoinstall

1. Boot into Live Ubuntu ISO
2. Setup Language, Accessibility, Keyboard, Network and then select "Try Ubuntu"
3. Manually test that everything works as expected
4. Download and run the [`ubuntu-autoinstall.sh`](bootstrap/ubuntu-autoinstall.sh) script to generate the [configuration file](https://canonical-subiquity.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/reference/autoinstall-reference.html)

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devmatteini/dotfiles/refs/heads/main/bootstrap/ubuntu-autoinstall.sh
chmod +x ubuntu-autoinstall.sh
./ubuntu-autoinstall.sh
```

5. Open "Install Ubuntu" and progress until "Type of installation" section
6. Select "Automated Install" and paste the configuration file URI from the script output
7. Wait for validation, review the generated file and proceed with the installation

## Shell

Currently using [`zsh`](https://www.zsh.org/).
You can customize it by editing [`configs/zsh`](configs/zsh/) files.

Alternatively you can use [`configs/bash`](configs/bash/).

## Prompt

Currently using [`starship`](https://github.com/starship/starship/).
You can customize it by editing [`configs/starship.toml`](configs/starship.toml).

By default if starship is not installed basic fallback prompt is available for both `bash` and `zsh`.

## Terminal Emulator

Currently using [`WezTerm`](https://wezfurlong.org/wezterm/index.html).
You can customize it by editing [`configs/wezterm/wezterm.lua`](configs/wezterm/wezterm.lua).

Alternatively you can use `gnome-terminal` and load its configuration by running:

```bash
./packages/gnome-terminal configs/gnome-terminal.dconf
```

To export a new configuration follow [this article](https://gist.github.com/devmatteini/968981d95fd203905f7618ce67647e83) instructions.

## Packages

If you didn't run the `bootstrap.sh` script, run:

```bash
./bootstrap/file_system.sh
./bootstrap/dependencies.sh
```

To install packages you can find scripts in [`packages/`](packages/).

## GRUB Theme

https://github.com/shvchk/poly-dark

![grub-poly-dark](./assets/grub-poly-dark.png)

## Inspired by

- https://github.com/alrra/dotfiles
- https://github.com/mathiasbynens/dotfiles
- https://github.com/iacoware/dotfiles/
- https://github.com/CoreyMSchafer/dotfiles
- https://github.com/mrnugget/dotfiles
- https://github.com/LukeSmithxyz/voidrice
- https://github.com/Phantas0s/.dotfiles
- https://github.com/basecamp/omakub
